hello everyone so in today's video we're
going to be talking about the realities
of financing University how much does it
cost me to study at the University of
Cambridge it ain't cheap let me tell you
I always get a lot of questions from
people asking me about the cost of my
studies financing University is clearly
a big concern for a lot of people in
this video I just want to set it out
clearly for everyone and be as
transparent as possible this video will
be specific to people living in England
and Wales who are studying at UK
universities just because that's what I
have knowledge about that is my
situation and I have no idea about cost
of university when it comes to
universities outside the UK or
international students studying at
universities in the UK so if you are in
that position I can only suggest looking
up online looking University websites to
get information that way but yeah I
don't want to incorrectly inform anyone
also in this video I'm gonna be talking
about the current situation when it
comes to tuition fees and loans this
could change in the future don't know
what the government will decide in the
future but yeah 2019 hello this is the
situation and yeah obviously and my
experience is studying at the University
of Cambridge so I will be giving
examples from that but also financing
Cambridge University is much the same as
financing most other universities in the
country so yeah hopefully this video is
helpful to lots of you my bulk cost for
university is tuition fees tuition fees
a nine thousand two hundred and fifty
pounds per year it's the same for most
universities in the country and the
government decides that nine thousand
two hundred fifty pound cap on how much
universities can charge next we'll move
on to my accommodation cost so cost of
accommodation can vary between
universities and even colleges within
Cambridge so I've actually got the
figures that I spent on my accommodation
in my years of university so far so let
me just get my laptop out in my first
year I spent four thousand two hundred
pounds on my accommodation it was a
short license I did have to move out my
stuff and
the day so I actually only had the room
for 27 weeks that year so it worked out
at 156 pounds per week for my room then
in my second year my accommodation cost
more it cost 5,200 pounds although bear
in mind I did choose this particular
room knowing it would be more expensive
also in second year my room license was
for longer so I had my room for 32 weeks
meaning it worked out at about 163
pounds per week and in my first and
second year both those rooms were
ensuite rooms and in my opinion they
were of quite a high standard in my
third year and my accommodation isn't
gonna be quite as nice I haven't chosen
as fancy a room it's not ensuite so it
is cheaper and I'm going to be paying
115 pounds per week for this room but my
room license is longer so I have a long
license that lasts 39 weeks this year
meaning overall I'm going to be spending
4500 pounds on my accommodation for
third year I did a little bit of a
calculation on my calculator and on
average I am spending four thousand six
hundred and thirty three pounds on my
accommodation per year I don't like
saying these figures out loud because it
just sounds like such a lot of money in
my case at Cambridge we get
accommodations supplied to us by the
University for all the years of our
undergraduate degree so we don't ever
move out of college we are essentially
in holes for the whole of the degree at
other universities typically you're in
halls for your first year which is
university accommodation and then in
your later years you move out and find
your own accommodation so the cost of
university accommodation can vary
massively depending on what quality of
accommodation you're going for and also
where you're living so my sister's just
started University in London and her
room is 220 pounds per week and she also
has no choice but to have that on a long
license for 39 weeks meaning what is it
in total eight thousand six hundred
pounds for the year for her
accommodation almost double what I'm
paying in Cambridge so you can't see the
difference in location does have an
impact on the cost
okay so then aside from the tuition fees
and accommodation costs you have other
living costs this can include things
like food
toiletries clothes entertainment you
might need to pay for utilities like
electricity gas or the internet although
because of my situation that I'm living
in halls this is all included in my
accommodation for my 3 years but that
might be a separate cost if you're our
other universities and living in
external accommodation so whilst I've
been at university so far I have been
keeping track or everything I've spent
and in my second year of university my
living costs like separate to the
accommodation course have amounted to
about three thousand seven hundred
pounds for the year now this three
thousand seven hundred pounds does
include things like ski trip Boat Club
camp which was subsidized but both those
were trips away so they obviously have
contributed quite a large chunk to that
and also Mabel we have our fancy balls
at Cambridge tickets are about 150
pounds for those so that bumps it up
although it is worth noting that the
mabel cost is trying to be brought down
to people with lower household incomes
if you've watched my vlogs shall know
that I am mostly catered at University
and I go to the college cafeteria for
one meal per day being partially catered
does cost me more than if I was
suffocated but for me I think it's worth
it I think I've spoken about my reasons
in other videos at Jesus College most
students pay a kitchen fixed charge each
term which is about 180 pounds this then
subsidizes our meal costs at the
cafeteria and per term I spend on
average 350 pounds in the cafeteria that
350 pounds includes all of my hot
evening meals and also formal dinners
that I go to and then also I obviously
need food for my lunches and breakfasts
and any snacks I might want so I shop in
Sainsbury's for all of that and a lot of
my living costs go on
Sainsbury's one of their top customers
so then I've got my calculator out again
and I found that taking the tuition fee
cost of nine thousand two hundred and
fifty pounds the average accommodation
costs at Cambridge or four thousand six
hundred and thirty three pounds and then
the living costs I spent for second year
of three thousand seven pounds I added
all that together
to get 17,500 and 83 pounds per year to
study at Cambridge in my case like as I
said you've got to give a bit of leeway
either way but that's what I have been
paying that's a lot I hope you're all
keeping up I'm sorry if it's an overload
of information I'm trying to make it as
clear and easy to understand as possible
if you have any more questions just feel
free to put them in the comments below
okay so it's not impossible to pay for
all this you'll be glad to know through
Student Finance England you can apply
for two loans first loan is your tuition
fee loan this covers the nine thousand
two hundred and fifty pounds for your
tuition fees and is paid directly from
the student loans company to your
University so you never actually see
that money you just get lumped with a
huge debt after uni woohoo the second
loan that you can apply for through
Student Finance England is a maintenance
loan this helps go towards your living
costs and accommodation costs at
university the mace that's loan is means
tested they will assess your household
income and where you're living
and that will affect how much you can
apply for for the maintenance loan for
the lowest household income level you
can apply for up to eight thousand nine
hundred and forty four pounds and then
as your household income goes higher
that amount you can apply for goes down
however there is part of the main SATs
loan which is not means-tested so you
can always get at least I think it's
about four thousand pounds even if
you've got a high household income also
the amount of maintenance loan you can
apply for can change so you can actually
apply for more if you're studying in
London because it's very expensive there
if you're living at home then you can
apply for less maintenance knowing
because you're gonna have less cost to
pay for that you don't have to pay for
accommodation if you living at home the
main sets loan is paid into your bank
account in three installments throughout
the year most students do apply for both
the tuition fee loan and at least some
of the maintenance line I will link
below all the nitty-gritty details of
these loans in the description they also
have a very funky way of being repaid
they're not quite like a normal loan
once you finish your course you start
repaying your loan
if you are earning above a certain
income threshold this - hold is twenty
five thousand seven hundred and twenty
five pounds per year if you're above
this repayment threshold you will pay
nine percent of your income towards
paying back this loan and then another
sneaky detail is after thirty years if
you still have a remaining balance on
your student loan it's completely
canceled and you don't have to pay back
anymore I guess it's kind of comforting
to know that at least once I reached my
50s I will definitely be debt-free so
because of this detail only the really
high earners actually end up paying
their full student loan back and the
majority of students won't actually pay
the full balance back okay so that's the
loans out the way next my parents helped
me out with my university costs my
maintenance alone just doesn't cover my
accommodation and living costs by itself
and so since my parents have an income
which is not on the lowest bands so I'm
not getting the maximum maintenance loan
available they are expected to help me
out with my university costs obviously
I'm very grateful to my parents for
helping me out but I'm aware also that
not everyone will have that luxury but
the system should be set up in such a
way that if your parents physically
can't help you out with University and
you do have a low household income then
your maintenance loans should be much
higher and managed to cover the bulk of
your university costs okay
next Avenue of money is I had savings
from my Saturday job during six form so
I worked every Saturday while studying
for my a-levels so that was two years
working in a local coffee shop I was
quite sensible in those two years as
well I didn't just blow all my money as
soon as it came to payday and I did save
a lot of it up and having that amount of
cash starting University was such a big
help when I started to be honest I would
highly recommend doing some part-time
work in the years leading up to going to
uni it is such great experience you
learned all these new skills you get a
bit more independent as well and like
having these savings does take the
pressure off getting a job as soon as
you start University I do think when you
start University a lot of people don't
really want to immediately get a job you
want to enjoy making new friends and all
the things that you know
has to offer I also get a little bit of
money from my YouTube channel
and I feel so lucky to be able to say
that my hobby is literally helping me
fund my studies it's honestly a dream
situation for me and leading on from
that something I touched on earlier you
can get a part-time job whilst you're
studying at university or well I mean at
Cambridge
you're not allowed a part-time job and I
believe it's the same Oxford's the
university has the opinion that the work
is extremely intense and you just won't
have time for part-time work whilst
studying I would agree with that
actually I just don't think there is
time to work a part-time job whilst at
Cambridge
however the Oxford and Cambridge
University holidays are incredibly long
our terms are only eight weeks long so
your holidays are actually longer than
the time you spend at University I think
each year you can make the most of those
holidays and get part-time work during
that time or if you are other
universities which do allow you to have
a part-time job then a lot of students
do get part-time jobs alongside their
university studies and there are
typically lots of student jobs going in
university towns
I guess my one thing I'd say is when
starting University I personally would
rather not have a job but once you're
settled I don't think there's anything
wrong with eating a part-time job at
University I mean people do tutoring
people do supermarket work working in
bars you know there's lots out there so
get searching if you're thinking of that
and also there are bursaries and
scholarships available at lots of
universities for the Cambridge specific
case there is the Cambridge bursary
scheme so on this scheme undergraduates
with a household income below forty two
thousand six hundred and twenty pounds
can get up to three thousand five
hundred pounds a year bursaries they
don't have to pay this back it's a gift
to help finance their studies also at
Cambridge and more support is available
from the individual colleges themselves
so it's always worth checking if you're
eligible for any bursaries from them and
yeah various scholarships are available
as well for not just Cambridge but other
universities which you can apply for you
know you've got nothing to lose
and yeah that's it for how you can
finance University so let's move on to
budgeting even if you don't have a
massive amount of money available to you
you can make that go the distance if
your budget so you don't have any
control over tuition fees you don't have
any control over your accommodation cost
but you can control your living costs
and when it comes to your maintenance
loan you do need to exercise a little
bit more responsibility
don't blow it all in the first week in
freshers week or or nights out it's a
stupid idea
first thing I'd suggest is making a
spreadsheet and keeping track of your
money keep track of what comes in what
goes out set yourself weekly termly
budgeting goals how much they're gonna
spend this week on food how much am I
gonna spend for the whole term on food
and be strict with yourself because
you'll thank yourself later keep your
receipts log it all stay on it I'm sure
there are lots of videos out there on
how you can save money as a student you
know be smart with your supermarket shop
use the coupons that the supermarket
gives out get your points of rewards
cards get the deals plan your meals out
in advance you can prepare them in bulk
or bulk by you can share things with
your housemates that you aren't gonna
use up yourself in a week like milk or
cooking oil and in general just assess
what your priorities are different
people are gonna have different
priorities and want to spend their money
on different things decide what's
necessary because I think sometimes you
know that last drink or a night out
might not always be necessary do you
even remember having that last drink on
the night out did it make a difference
to your night cause if it didn't you
know don't get it okay so let's conclude
let's wrap up nobody should be stopped
from going to university because they
can't afford it and hopefully there are
mechanisms in place to stop this from
happening you know if you do feel like
you can't afford it look into things
like bursaries scholarships how much
maintenance loan are you eligible for
can you get some part-time work you get
the idea and yeah university is very
expensive but in my opinion it's worth
it otherwise I wouldn't be at university
I am happy
that my degree is gonna open lots of
doors for me in the future and hopefully
make me employable we can hope and also
you know I do enjoy learning I'm
enjoying the university experience so
I'm happy to be at uni yes I've got all
these loans to repay but we'll cross
that bridge when we come to it and I
also hope that this video helps dispel
the myth that Oxford and Cambridge are
way more expensive than other
universities because they're really not
I think that's it for today's video give
this video a thumbs up if you enjoyed it
comment down below any more questions
you might have
I'll put a load of useful links in the
description as well if you're worried
about financing University or want to
find out more about it subscribe to my
channel to see lots of University
content hit the notification belts then
you're notified every time I upload
follow me over on my Instagram as well
and yeah that's it for today I will see
you soon with another video bye
[Music]
you